---
ID: 69
post_title: >
  More in depth analysis about which
  factors you should considered before
  starting a project
author: Erwin Andrés Agüero
post_date: 2015-10-27 11:08:46
post_excerpt: ""
layout: post
permalink: >
  https://dev.mikamai.com/2015/10/27/more-in-depth-analysis-about-which-factors-you/
published: true
tumblr_mikamayhem_permalink:
  - >
    http://dev.mikamai.com/post/132011383479/more-in-depth-analysis-about-which-factors-you
tumblr_mikamayhem_id:
  - "132011383479"
---
<p>In my <a href="http://dev.mikamai.com/post/129566282449/what-is-necessary-to-consider-before-starting-a">previous post</a>, I mentioned which factor are commons between heavyweight and lightweight methodologies. Now , I would like to analyze each factor more in depth:</p><ol><li><b>Size of the project team</b><br />The amount of members available not only determines how many hours you can allocate for a project. In fact, it determines the team organizations for different features. For example: the smalls team allow to have less documentation and better communication between members, On the other hang, with a big team is possible try different approaches for a difficult problem.<br /><br /></li><li><b>Rate of expected change<br /></b>Here there area two main aspects to be considered:  cost of change and if the the requirements are stable over time. If the cost of change is high , it’s preferable to use an agile methodology, but if the cost is low-medium and requirements are stable enough, a methodology like <a href="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Rational_Unified_Process">RUP</a> is more appropriate because it allows you to define risk plans in a small time, given its incremental approach.<br /><br /></li><li><b>Primary project goal<br /></b>For me the most important point in this case is timing in order to answer which is the deadline? The response is given by the client, usually they don’t know what they need , but they know when they need the solution for mainly external factors (suppliers and customers demands, for example). Hence, it’s necessary to establish a right timing and flexibility that the developing team can provide. Again, when the timing is short, it’s preferable to use an agile methodologies.<br /><br /></li><li><b>Requirement Management<br /></b>In order to identify this element for a project it’s necessary to answer the question : “Does the project require baseline complete traceable requirements?” When a project requires a high level of definition and documentation , it’s better to use a heavy approach, while when flexibility is more important it’s necessary an agile approach.<br /><br /></li><li><b>Project Communication</b><br />An complementary point to be considered when analyzing the requirement management (4) is : How to reach an effective communication with our clients and team? For example, <a href="http://www.agilemanifesto.org/principles.html">The Agile Manifesto</a> mentions “The most efficient and effective method of conveying information to and within a development  team is face-to-face conversation, but this element is also an element to keep with our client, in order to reach it reasonably considered the following <a href="http://guides.opin.ca/guide/the-seven-barriers-of-communication/">communication barriers</a>: physical, perceptual, emotional, cultural, language, gender and interpersonal barriers.<br /><br /></li><li><b>Customer Relationship</b><br />One may think that the contract is integral to defining the relationship with the customer. However, I would to discuss the following questions: What happens after the project? I delivered the project and that’s just it? I don’t think so, one of the most critical points for any business is the sustainability. When any manager is working over a project, he or she must look how to satisfy the customers’ needs in order to create a long-term relationship. You can reach this goal for example by asking the client for the next steps after the project is done, or propose a maintenance plan for the project.<br /><br /></li><li><b>Organizational Culture<br /></b><br />The organizational culture defined by Schein is : “A pattern of shared basic assumptions that the group learned as it solved its problems that has worked well enough to be considered valid and is passed on to new members as the correct way to perceive, think, and feel in relation to those problems.” Given the previous definition it’s necessary to reach a concrete mode to establish the organizational culture, to this aim it could be useful to know what are the common elements used in agile methodologies. For example according to the study : ”The Impact of Organizational Culture on Agile Method Use” the factors that allow to implement “better” agile methodologies are:</li><ol><li>The organization values feedback and learning. Social interaction in the organization is trustful, collaborative, and competent. The project manager acts as a facilitator. The management style is that of leadership and collaboration.<br /></li><li>The organization values teamwork is flexible and participative and encourages social interaction.<br /></li><li>The organization enables empowerment of people.<br /></li><li>The organization is results oriented.<br /></li><li>The leadership in the organization is entrepreneurial, innovative, and risk taking.<br /></li><li>The organization is based on loyalty and mutual trust and commitment.<br /></li></ol></ol><p>If you have any comments, just write to erwin@mikamai.com. I hope that you can reach more general vision with this overview.</p>